Intl.NumberFormat - fixes to rounding value info (#18505)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/intl/numberformat/numberformat/index.md

        - `true`: alias for `always`.

    - `roundingMode` {{experimental_inline}}
      - : Options for rounding modes. The default is `halfExpand`.

        - `"ceil"`: round to a "more positive" value (toward +∞).
        - `"floor"`round to a "less positive" value (toward -∞).
        - `"expand"`: round away from 0. Positive numbers round up, negative numbers round down (more negative).
        - `"trunc"`:  round toward 0. Positive numbers round down, negative numbers round up (less negative).
        - `"halfCeil"`: ties toward +∞.

>         - `"halfFloor"`: ties toward -∞..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - `"halfFloor"`: ties toward -∞.
```

    - `roundingPriority` {{experimental_inline}}
      - :  Specify how rounding conflicts will be resolved if both "FractionDigits" ([`minimumFractionDigits`](#minimumfractiondigits)/[`maximumFractionDigits`](#maximumfractiondigits)) and "SignificantDigits" ([`minimumSignificantDigits`](#minimumsignificantdigits)/[`maximumSignificantDigits`](#minimumsignificantdigits)) are specified:

        - `"auto"`: the result from the significant digits property is used (default).
        - `"morePrecision"`: the result from the property that results in more precision is used.
        - `"lessPrecision"`: the result from the property that results in less precision is used.

        Note that for values other than `auto` the result with more precision calculated from the [`maximumSignificantDigits`](#minimumsignificantdigits) [`maximumFractionDigits`](#maximumfractiondigits) (minimum values are ignored).

    - `roundingIncrement` {{experimental_inline}}
      - : Specifies the rounding-increment precision.
        Must be one of the following integers:

>         "`1`", " `2`", "`5`", "`10`", "`20`", " `25`", "`50`", "`100`", "`200`", "`250`", "`500`", "`1000`", "`2000`", "`2500`", " `5000`".

Reviewer: Remove quotes

        - `true`: alias for `always`.

    - `roundingMode` {{experimental_inline}}
      - : Options for rounding modes. The default is `halfExpand`.

        - `"ceil"`: round to a "more positive" value (toward +∞).
        - `"floor"`round to a "less positive" value (toward -∞).
        - `"expand"`: round away from 0. Positive numbers round up, negative numbers round down (more negative).
        - `"trunc"`: round toward 0. Positive numbers round down, negative numbers round up (less negative).
        - `"halfCeil"`: ties toward +∞.
        - `"halfFloor"`: ties toward -∞.
        - `"halfExpand"`: ties away from 0.
        - `"halfTrunc"`: ties toward 0.

>         - `"halfEven"`: rounds like `halfExpand`. On half-increment value rounded to the have even cardinality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - `"halfEven"`: rounds like `halfExpand`. On half-increment value rounded towards the nearest even integer.
```

>         These options reflect the [ICU user guide](https://unicode-org.github.io/icu/userguide/format_parse/numbers/rounding-modes.html), where "expand" and "trunc" map to ICU "UP" and"DOWN", respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        These options reflect the [ICU user guide](https://unicode-org.github.io/icu/userguide/format_parse/numbers/rounding-modes.html), where "expand" and "trunc" map to ICU "UP" and "DOWN", respectively.
```

>         See [rounding and truncating](##rounding_and_truncating) below for examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        See [rounding and truncating](#rounding_and_truncating) below for examples.
```

    - `roundingPriority` {{experimental_inline}}

>       - :  Specify how rounding conflicts will be resolved if both "FractionDigits" ([`minimumFractionDigits`](#minimumfractiondigits)/[`maximumFractionDigits`](#maximumfractiondigits)) and "SignificantDigits" ([`minimumSignificantDigits`](#minimumsignificantdigits)/[`maximumSignificantDigits`](#minimumsignificantdigits)) are specified:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - : Specify how rounding conflicts will be resolved if both "FractionDigits" ([`minimumFractionDigits`](#minimumfractiondigits)/[`maximumFractionDigits`](#maximumfractiondigits)) and "SignificantDigits" ([`minimumSignificantDigits`](#minimumsignificantdigits)/[`maximumSignificantDigits`](#minimumsignificantdigits)) are specified:
```

        - `"auto"`: the result from the significant digits property is used (default).
        - `"morePrecision"`: the result from the property that results in more precision is used.
        - `"lessPrecision"`: the result from the property that results in less precision is used.

>         Note that for values other than `auto` the result with more precision calculated from the [`maximumSignificantDigits`](#minimumsignificantdigits) [`maximumFractionDigits`](#maximumfractiondigits) (minimum values are ignored).

Reviewer: This looks like a sentence fragment?

Author: ```suggestion
        Note that for values other than `auto` the result with more precision is calculated from the [`maximumSignificantDigits`](#minimumsignificantdigits) and [`maximumFractionDigits`](#maximumfractiondigits) (minimum fractional and significant digit settings are ignored).
```

Thanks for all these fixes. I'm trying to finish up for the week and clearly not careful enough.

        > If you set `minimumFractionDigits` and `maximumFractionDigits`, they must set them to the same value; otherwise a `RangeError` is thrown.

    - `trailingZeroDisplay` {{experimental_inline}}
      - : A string expressing the strategy for displaying trailing zeros on whole numbers.

>         The default is "`auto`".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The default is `"auto"`.
```

        The default is "`auto`".

        - `"auto"`: keep trailing zeros according to minimumFractionDigits and minimumSignificantDigits
        - `"stripIfInteger"`: the result with more precision wins a conflict

>         - `"lessPrecision"`: same as "auto", but remove the fraction digits if they are all zero

Author: Note , this was a copy paste error

>           This is the same as `auto` if any of the fraction digits are non-zero.

Author: Are is correct for plural, and here I am am referring to a group of digits. Devil's advocate, this reads correctly for "is" as well. I don't know why.

>           This is the same as `auto` if any of the fraction digits are non-zero.

Reviewer: "Any of X" sounds more singular in this case... 🤔 Since we are "picking one". https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/475028/is-any-of-them-used-with-a-singular-or-plural-verb

>           This is the same as `auto` if any of the fraction digits are non-zero.

Author: Unconvinced. But I suspect this can be read either way. Merging.

    The following properties fall into two groups:
    `minimumIntegerDigits`, `minimumFractionDigits`, and `maximumFractionDigits` in one group,
    `minimumSignificantDigits` and `maximumSignificantDigits` in the other.
    If properties from both groups are specified, conflicts in the resulting display format are resolved based on the value of the [`roundingPriority`](#roundingpriority) property.

    - `minimumIntegerDigits`
      - : The minimum number of integer digits to use.

>         A number with a smaller integer part than this value will be zero-prefixed to this number of digits when formatted.

Author: I'll come back to this on Friday when I'm back on Moz work.

>         A number with a smaller integer part than this value will be zero-prefixed to this number of digits when formatted.

Author: Fixed

        > If you set `minimumFractionDigits` and `maximumFractionDigits`, they must set them to the same value; otherwise a `RangeError` is thrown.

    - `trailingZeroDisplay` {{experimental_inline}}
      - : A string expressing the strategy for displaying trailing zeros on whole numbers.
        The default is `"auto"`.

>         - `"auto"`: keep trailing zeros according to `minimumFractionDigits` and `minimumSignificantDigits`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - `"auto"`: keep trailing zeros according to `minimumFractionDigits` and `minimumSignificantDigits`.
```

// → '($3,500.00)'
```

### FractionDigits, SignificantDigits and IntegerDigits

The `NumberFormat() constructor` can be used to specify the minimum or maximum number of fractional, integer or significant digits to display when formatting a number.

> **Note:** If both significant and fractional digit limits are specified then formatting depends on the [`roundingPriority`](#roundingpriority).

#### Using FractionDigits and IntegerDigits

The integer and fraction digit properties indicate the number of digits to display before and after the decimal point, respectively.
If the value to display has fewer integer digits than specified it will be zero prefixed to the expected number.

> If it has fewer fractional digits it will be zero suffixed.

Author: Thanks. Better.

console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumFractionDigits: 2}).format(4.33145));
// > "4.33"
```

The minimum factional digits have no effect if the value already has more than 2 fractional digits, as shown below.

```js
// Minimum fractions have no effect if value is higher precision.
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {minimumFractionDigits: 2}).format(4.33145));
// > "4.331"
```

> **Warning:** Watch out for default values as they may affect formatting even if not specified in your code.
> The default default maximum digit value is three for plain values, two for currency, and may have different values for other predefined types.

The formatted value above is rounded to 3 digits, even though we didn't specify the maximum digits!
This is because a default value of `maximumFractionDigits` is set when we specify `minimumFractionDigits`, and visa versa.

This is demonstrated below, using [`resolvedOptions()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat/resolvedOptions) to inspect the formatter.
Note that when either `maximumFractionDigits` or `minimumFractionDigits` is defined, so is its counterpart.

> Also note the default values of `maximumFractionDigits: 3` and `minimumFractionDigits: 0`.

Author: Thanks. IF there was a faceplant emoji I'd use it.

The number of _significant digits_ is the total number of digits including both integer and factional parts.
The `maximumSignificantDigits` is used to indicate the total number of digits from the original value to display.

The examples below show how this works.
Note in particular the last case: only the first digit is retained and the others are discarded/set to zero.

```js
// Display 5 significant digits
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 5}).format(54.33145));
// > "54.331"

// Max 2 significant digits
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2}).format(54.33145));
// > "54"

// Max 1 significant digits
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 1}).format(54.33145));
// > "50"
```

The `minimumSignificantDigits` ensures that at least the minimum number of digits are displayed, adding zeros to the end of the value if needed.

```js
// Minimum 10 significant digits
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {minimumSignificantDigits: 10}).format(54.33145));
// > "54.33145000"
```

> **Warning:** Watch out for default values as they may affect formatting even if not specified in your code.

> > The default default maximum and minimum significant digit values are 20 and 1, respectively.

Reviewer: Yep, sounds good

If both are used at the same time, it is possible for them to conflict.

These conflicts are resolved using the [`roundingPriority`](#roundingpriority) property.
By default this has a value of `auto`, which means that if either [`minimumSignificantDigits`](#minimumsignificantdigits) or [`maximumSignificantDigits`](#minimumsignificantdigits) is specified the fractional and integer digit properties will be ignored.

For example, the code below formats the value of `4.33145` with `maximumFractionDigits: 3`, and then `maximumSignificantDigits: 2`, and then both.
The value with both is the one set with `maximumSignificantDigits`.

```js
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumFractionDigits: 3}).format(4.33145));
// > "4.331"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2}).format(4.33145));
// > "4.3"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumFractionDigits: 3, maximumSignificantDigits: 2}).format(4.33145));
// > "4.3"
```

> Using [`resolvedOptions()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat/resolvedOptions) to inspect the formatter we can see that the returned object does not include `maximumFractionDigits` when `maximumSignificantDigits` or `minimumSignificantDigits` are specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using [`resolvedOptions()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat/resolvedOptions) to inspect the formatter, we can see that the returned object does not include `maximumFractionDigits` when `maximumSignificantDigits` or `minimumSignificantDigits` are specified.
```

```js
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumFractionDigits: 3, maximumSignificantDigits: 2}).resolvedOptions());
// > Object { locale: "en", numberingSystem: "latn", style: "decimal", minimumIntegerDigits: 1, minimumSignificantDigits: 1, maximumSignificantDigits: 2, useGrouping: "auto", notation: "standard", signDisplay: "auto", roundingMode: "halfExpand", roundingIncrement: 1, trailingZeroDisplay: "auto", roundingPriority: "auto" }
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumFractionDigits: 3, minimumSignificantDigits: 2}).resolvedOptions());
// > Object { locale: "en", numberingSystem: "latn", style: "decimal", minimumIntegerDigits: 1, minimumSignificantDigits: 2, maximumSignificantDigits: 21, useGrouping: "auto", notation: "standard", signDisplay: "auto", roundingMode: "halfExpand", roundingIncrement: 1, trailingZeroDisplay: "auto", roundingPriority: "auto" }
```

> In addition to `auto` you can resolve conflicts by specifying [`roundingPriority`](#roundingpriority) as `morePrecision` or `lessPrecision`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to `auto`, you can resolve conflicts by specifying [`roundingPriority`](#roundingpriority) as `morePrecision` or `lessPrecision`.
```

```js
const both_less = new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {roundingPriority: 'lessPrecision', minimumFractionDigits: 2, minimumSignificantDigits: 2} )
console.log(`lessPrecision - ${both_less.format(1)}`);
// > "lessPrecision - 1.00"

const both_more = new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {roundingPriority: 'morePrecision', minimumFractionDigits: 2, minimumSignificantDigits: 2} )
console.log(`morePrecision - ${both_more.format(1)}`);
// > "morePrecision - 1.0"
```

The reason for this is that only the "maximum precision" values are used for the calculation, and the default value of `maximumSignificantDigits` is much higher than `maximumFractionDigits`.

> **Note:** The working group have proposed a modification of the algorithm where the formatter should evaluate the result of using the specified fractional and significant digits independently (taking account of both minimum and maximum values).
> It will then select the option that displays more fractional digits if  `morePrecision` is set, and fewer if `lessPrecision` is set.
> This will result in more intuitive behavior for this case.

### Rounding and truncating

> If a value has more fractional digits than are allowed by the constructor options, then the formatted value will be _rounded_ to the specified number of fractional digits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a value has more fractional digits than allowed by the constructor options, the formatted value will be _rounded_ to the specified number of fractional digits.
```

This is shown below: 2.31 rounded to two significant digits is truncated to 2.3 because 2.31 is less than the half increment 2.35, while values of 2.35 and greater are rounded up to 2.4:

```js
// Value below half way point: round down.
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2}).format(2.31));
// > "2.3"

// Value on or above half way point: round up.
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2}).format(2.35));
// > "2.4"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2}).format(2.39));
// > "2.4"
```

A negative number on or below the half-increment point is also rounded away from zero (becomes more negative).
This is shown be the code below:

```js
// Value below half way point: round down.
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2}).format(-2.31));
// > "-2.3"

// Value on or above half way point: round up.
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2}).format(-2.35));
// > "-2.4"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2}).format(-2.39));
// > "-2.4"
```

#### expand and trunc rounding

> `expand` mode round away from zero for any non-zero value of the fractional digits to be discarded.
> This means that the _magnitude_ of the value is always increased by rounding, making a positive number more positive, and a negative number more negative.
> `trunc` rounding modes is the opposite; it rounds towards zero, reducing the magnitude of the displayed value. round away from zero and towards zero, respectively, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`expand` mode always rounds excess digits away from zero.
This means that the _magnitude_ of the value is always increased by rounding, making a positive number more positive, and a negative number more negative.
`trunc` rounding mode is the opposite; it always rounds the excess digits towards zero, reducing the magnitude of the displayed value.
```

The code below shows the different rounding behavior for each case:

```js
// 'expand' mode rounds away from zero
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "expand"}).format(2.33));
// > "2.4"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "expand"}).format(2.39));
// > "2.4"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "expand"}).format(-2.33));
// > "-2.4"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "expand"}).format(-2.39));
// > "-2.4"

// 'trunc' mode rounds towards zero  - truncates
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "trunc"}).format(2.33));
// > "2.3"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "trunc"}).format(2.39));
// > "2.3"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "trunc"}).format(-2.33));
// > "-2.3"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "trunc"}).format(-2.39));
// > "-2.3"
```

#### ceil and floor rounding

> `ceil` rounding always rounds the value "more positive" for any non-zero value of the fractional digits to be discarded.
> `floor` rounding is the opposite; it rounds "more negative"
> For positive numbers `ceil` and `expand` have the same result, as do `floor` and `trunc`.
> For negative numbers rounding is different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ceil` always rounds the excess digits in the "more positive" direction.
`floor` rounding is the opposite; it rounds in the "more negative" direction.
For positive numbers, `ceil` and `expand` have the same result, as do `floor` and `trunc`.
For negative numbers, `ceil` is the same as `trunc`, while `expand` is the same as `floor`.
```

The code below shows the different rounding behavior for each case:

```js
// 'ceil' mode rounds towards positive infinity
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "ceil"}).format(2.33));
// > "2.4"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "ceil"}).format(2.39));
// > "2.4"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "ceil"}).format(-2.33));
// > "-2.3"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "ceil"}).format(-2.39));
// > "-2.3"

// 'floor' mode rounds towards negative infinity
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "floor"}).format(2.33));
// > "2.3"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "floor"}).format(2.39));
// > "2.3"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "floor"}).format(-2.33));
// > "-2.4"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "floor"}).format(-2.39));
// > "-2.4"
```

#### halfExpand halfTrunc rounding

> `halfExpand` and `halfTrunc` are similar.
> In both cases values above the half-increment are rounded by expanded away from zero, and values below the half-increment are truncated towards zero.
> The only difference is that for values _on_ the half way increment they follow the rounding implied by their names: `halfTrunc` rounds towards zero, while `halfExpand` rounds away from zero.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`halfExpand` and `halfTrunc` are similar.
In both cases, values above the half-increment are rounded by expanding away from zero, and values below the half-increment are truncated towards zero.
The only difference is that for values _on_ the half-way increment, they follow the rounding implied by their names: `halfTrunc` rounds towards zero, while `halfExpand` rounds away from zero.
```

console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "halfTrunc"}).format(-2.31));
// > "-2.3"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "halfExpand"}).format(-2.31));
// > "-2.3"

// Values with fractional digits ON the half increment
// - round away from zero for halfExpand
// - round towards zero for halfTrunc 
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "halfTrunc"}).format(-2.35));
// > "-2.3"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "halfExpand"}).format(-2.35));
// > "-2.4"

// Value with fractional digits below the half increment round away from zero
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "halfTrunc"}).format(-2.37));
// > "-2.4"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "halfTrunc"}).format(-2.37));
// > "-2.4"
```

#### halfCeil and halfFloor rounding

`halfCeil` and `halfFloor` are similar to `halfExpand` and `halfTrunc`, but follow `ceil` and `floor` rounding.

> In both cases values above the half-increment are rounded to be more positive, and values below the half-increment are rounded more negative.
> Values _on_ the half way increment follow the rounding implied by their names: `halfCeil` rounds more positive, while `halfFloor` rounds more negative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both cases, values above the half-increment are rounded to be more positive, and values below the half-increment are rounded to be more negative.
Values _on_ the half-way increment follow the rounding implied by their names: `halfCeil` rounds in the more positive direction, while `halfFloor` rounds to be more negative.
```

// > "2.4"
```

Negative values follow the same patterns:

```js
// Value with fractional digits below the half increment round more negative
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "halfFloor"}).format(-2.31));
// > "-2.3"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "halfCeil"}).format(-2.31));
// > "-2.3"

// Values with fractional digits ON the half increment
// - round more positive for halfCeil
// - round more negative for halfFloor
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "halfFloor"}).format(-2.35));
// > "-2.4"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "halfCeil"}).format(-2.35));
// > "-2.3"

// Value with fractional digits above the half increment round more positive
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "halfFloor"}).format(-2.37));
// > "-2.4"
console.log(new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {maximumSignificantDigits: 2, roundingMode: "halfCeil"}).format(-2.37));
// > "-2.4"
```

<!-- 

> #### halfEven - ties toward the value with even cardinality.

Author: Somewhat deliberate omission. I haven't been able to create a meaningful example. Happy to take advice, but also happ y for people to try this themselves.

Reviewer: Did a quick search: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28134938/what-is-half-even-rounding-for

So the point is about uniformity of distribution.

-->

### Using roundingIncrement

Sometimes we want to round the remaining fractional digits to some other increment than the next integer.
For example, currencies for which the smallest coin is 5 cents might want to round the value to increments of "5", reflecting amounts that can actually be paid in cash.

> This kind of rounding can be achieved with the [roundingIncrement](#roundingincrement) property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This kind of rounding can be achieved with the [`roundingIncrement`](#roundingincrement) property.
```

```js
const nf = new Intl.NumberFormat("en-US", {
  style: "currency",
  currency: "USD",
  maximumFractionDigits: 2,
  roundingIncrement: 5
});

console.log(nf.format(11.29));  // > output: "$11.30"
console.log(nf.format(11.25));  // > output: "$11.25"
console.log(nf.format(11.22));  // > output: "$11.20"
```

You can also use [`roundingMode`](#roundingmode) to change the rounding algorithm.
The example below shows how [`halfCeil`](#halfceil_and_halffloor_rounding) rounding can be used to round the value "less positive" below the half-rounding increment and "more positive" if above or on the half-increment.
The incremented digit is "0.05" so the half-increment is at .025 (below, this is shown at 11.225).

```js
const nf = new Intl.NumberFormat("en-US", {
  style: "currency",
  currency: "USD",
  maximumFractionDigits: 2,
  roundingIncrement: 5,
  roundingMode: "halfCeil"
});

console.log(nf.format(11.21));  // > output: "$11.20"
console.log(nf.format(11.22));  // > output: "$11.20"
console.log(nf.format(11.224));  // > output: "$11.20"
console.log(nf.format(11.225));  // > output: "$11.25"
console.log(nf.format(11.23));  // > output: "$11.25"
```

> If you need to change the number of digits then remember that `minimumFractionDigits` and `maximumFractionDigits` must both be set to the same value or a `RangeError` is thrown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to change the number of digits, remember that `minimumFractionDigits` and `maximumFractionDigits` must both be set to the same value, or a `RangeError` is thrown.
```

The example below shows the formatting of 1 using 

```js
const minFracNF = new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {minimumFractionDigits: 2} )
console.log(`minimumFractionDigits:2 - ${minFracNF.format(1)}`);
// > "minimumFractionDigits:2 - 1.00"

const minSigNS = new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {minimumSignificantDigits: 2} )
console.log(`minimumSignificantDigits:2 - ${minSigNS.format(1)}`);
// > "minimumSignificantDigits:2 - 1.0"

const minFracSigNS = new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {minimumFractionDigits: 2, minimumSignificantDigits: 2} )
console.log(`auto - ${minFracSigNS.format(1)}`);
// > "auto - 1.0"

const minFracSigNSless = new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {roundingPriority: 'lessPrecision', minimumFractionDigits: 2, minimumSignificantDigits: 2} )
console.log(`lessPrecision - ${minFracSigNSless.format(1)}`);
// > "lessPrecision - 1.00"

const minFracSigNSmore = new Intl.NumberFormat("en", {roundingPriority: 'morePrecision', minimumFractionDigits: 2, minimumSignificantDigits: 2} )
console.log(`morePrecision - ${minFracSigNSmore.format(1)}`);
// > "morePrecision - 1.0"

> ```

Author: This is how it is supposed to be. But if you look at the example the last two cases give you the wrong precision. I am exploring this in https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1648137#c29

I think that the minimum fraction digits are being ignored. The question is whether that is something that will be live implementation that needs BCD docs, or just something that will only be in nightly.

Author: OK, clarified and updated - the intuitive fix to rounding priority is not present yet.

- `ceil` always rounds values in the "more positive" direction.
  A positive value will be rounded up, but a negative value will be rounded towards zero.
- `floor` is the "opposite" of `ceil`; it rounds in the "more negative" direction.
  A positive value will be rounded down, while a negative value will be rounded away from zero ("more negative").
- `halfExpand` and `halfTrunc` behave similarly.
  In both cases, values above the half-increment are rounded by expanding away from zero like `expand`, and values below the half-increment are truncated towards zero like `trunc`.
  The difference is that for values _on_ the half-way increment, they follow the rounding implied by their names: `halfTrunc` rounds towards zero, while `halfExpand` rounds away from zero.
- `halfCeil` and `halfFloor` follow the same pattern.
  In both cases, values above the half-increment are rounded to be more positive like `ceil`, and values below the half-increment are rounded to be more negative like `floor`.
  The difference is that for values _on_ the half-way increment, they follow the rounding implied by their names.

> - `halfEven` is the same as `halfExpand`, except that for values on the half-increment it rounds the value to make the formatted value even.

Reviewer: Do you think we should put this in description instead? Looks a bit duplicated currently.

Author: @Josh-Cena You mean move this up/merge into the parameters/syntax?

IF you respond yes, I would do this as I have been leaning that way. I would also move the table up.

Reviewer: Yep, that's exactly what I meant. Merging it with the existing parameter description. I'm not sure about the table, though—feel like it's better to keep it in examples.

Author: Awesome. I think it turned out well - the original syntax section was too thin, which is why I expanded the examples definitions. Better to fix the canonical reference. Table still in the examples.
